---
layout: project
title: Theseus
date: 30 November, 2017
image: /portfolio/public/images/theseus.jpg
permalink: "project-3.html"
---

## Overview
As part of my individual undergraduate project at the University of Cape Town, I undertook to design, build and test an urban search and rescue robot. The resulting robot is Theseus. Theseus is aimed to satisfy certain goals, these goals are:
* Cost effective
* Tele-operated
* Agile

### Cost Effective
Theseus is designed to be cost effective. This is a broad term that could mean many things however in the context of this project, cost effective means that Theseus is replaceable. This is desireable for the field of urban search and resucue as it is unpredictable and human life is in danger. Having a search and rescue robot that is cost effective enough to be replaceable means that a team can have many robots this allows another robot to be sent nto the field if one robot becomes immobilized by unforseen circumstances. Being cost effective enough to be considered replaceable also means that they can be operated without the concern for losing a large investment. 

### Tele-operated
Theseus is designed to be tele-operated. This is owing to the fact that search and rescue environments are unpredictable. Unpredictable environments such as these require tele-operation in order to keep the people operating the robot safe. Tele operation was chosen over autonomy for Theseus as autonomy is difficult to acheive in such unpredictable environments and even with the use of current AI getting enough training data on which to train a urban search and rescue robot would be difficult.

### Agile
Theseus is designed to fit into small spaces while still being able to climb over large objects all while being energy efficient. Theseus makes use of a gear system in the wheels that causes the rear wheel to flip over the front wheel when the front wheel becomes stuck. This allows for theseus to have a low profile while still being able to overcome obstacles and climb steps. Theseus is also more energy effecient than winged or legged robots while acheiving this agility.

### The skills used in this project
In this project I had hands on 
